Your LinkedIn profile should be
generating hundreds of qualified leads
every single week. Your profile is the
one thing that works for you 24 hours a
day. Every post, every comment, every
connection request points back to it.
And most founders are wasting it. Hi, my
name is Krystle Ali and 3 years ago I
had 20,000 followers on LinkedIn. I was
posting consistently, I was getting
thousands of views and impressions, but
I wasn't getting many leads at all. And
today I have over 1.2 million followers
and my LinkedIn profile is the main
driver of leads and revenue for a
portfolio of businesses. In this video,
I'm going to show you seven changes that
I made to turn my profile into a lead
generation machine. So when the right
person finds you, they instantly know
what you do, who you help, and how to
work with you. So let's start with the
one thing that most people skip
entirely. That is knowing your ICP. Your
ICP or your ideal customer profile is
the specific person that you want to
attract. And the trick here is to get
really focused. You actually don't want
your profile to appeal to 95% of people.
You want it to be perfect for the 5% who
have a specific problem that you can
solve. So if you're an accountant, your
ICP might be business owners who want to
reduce their tax liability and pay their
staff more efficiently. Or if you're a
leadership coach, you're appealing to
first-time managers in fast-growing
companies. It all becomes incredibly
clear once you understand who you're
talking to, the language you should be
using, and what appeals to that
customer. I often think about it this
way. If I'm creating content for
entrepreneurs who are interested in
growth and scale, then everything that I
post should sit within that world. And
your profile should mirror that
approach. Write down who your ideal
customer is and then the 10 topics that
they genuinely care about. And as a
founder, this should be so deeply
ingrained in you that it's best not to
try and overthink this. And if you're
not heavily involved in the day-to-day
conversation with customers, you can ask
Claude or ChatGPT and ask what the
common challenges and interests of your
ICP are. And have it summarize those
into common themes for you. So three of
these 10 things can often become your
content pillars. But for the purposes of
this video, we're going to include them
in your profile. Now that you understand
the fundamentals, let's build your
LinkedIn profile starting with something
that most people miss, the perfect
profile photo. Your profile photo does
one job and that is to make someone feel
like they can trust you before they've
read a single word that you have
written. It's also worth noting that
your profile picture is the thing that
shows up every time that you comment on
[music] a post, so it's potential is to
reach millions of people. So it really
does need to be right. So let's start
with the head shot. Just try and make
sure that it's taken from the shoulders
up with a decent natural light and a
neutral background. If you can wear
fairly plain clothes to put the focus on
your face, that helps and don't
over-edit it. You don't want it to look
like AI. You also want to avoid things
like group photos or selfies or
distracting backgrounds or home settings
or anything like that. The profile
picture itself is 400 by 400 pixels. So
make sure that you're taking a photo
with that in mind. And if you really
want to stand out, like I have on my
profile, make the background a color,
your brand color maybe or just one that
stands out on the feed. And that is
genuinely all there is to it. The other
key visual is your LinkedIn banner. Most
people treat this like an afterthought.
There's a really big gap between what's
possible and what most people are
actually doing with their banners. So
the worst thing that you can do is just
select a photo that you like the look of
because that doesn't communicate
anything about who you are, what your
business offers, or how you can help
solve someone's specific problems. So
what does this actually look like? The
technical specs of the banner are 1584
by 396 pixels. So that's the space that
you have to play with, but there's
actually three things that your banner
needs to do. First, you need to set the
tone. So try and use consistent colors
between your company, your content, and
your banner.
And these brand colors begin to become
recognizable between you and your
content, so you have to get them right.
Second, you need to have a way to
communicate one clear value proposition.
If we think back to the leadership coach
example, it could be, "I help [music]
new leaders become excellent managers
using a four-step process." So what you
need to get across is who you help and
what outcome you're going to deliver to
that person. [music] And that is why
it's so important that we properly
understand our ICP. Finally, the third
thing your banner needs to include is a
call to action. Specifically, if this is
the only thing that they see, what do
you want them to do? So don't try and
hard sell here. The aim is to push them
into a funnel, which I will talk about
in more detail later. However, think of
this as directional. Say what you do and
tell them to look at that featured
section. And if you don't have the
skills to design a proper banner or you
don't have the time at the moment, I'd
suggest that you take your clear value
proposition statement, so what you do
for your customer, and put it across
your banner on the back of your color.
And if you want to learn how to do that,
I'm sure you can look up how to use
Canva on YouTube. So what we've just
covered really is just getting you to
the starting line. And the next part is
the single most important part of your
profile. This is your LinkedIn headline.
And not many people focus on this, but
the headline will follow you around
LinkedIn and it will appear next to
anything that you comment on, anything
that you post, anything that you
interact with. And so when you're
writing it, you really need to give
people an understanding of who you are
and what you do. So most people just
write their job title, but unless you
work at a big blue-chip company like
Apple, Google, or Goldman Sachs, that
doesn't really mean anything to anyone.
So the formula that I teach, and I'll
encourage you to use this, is "I am a
insert your role that helps a specific
audience, your ICP we talked about
earlier, achieve a desired result." So
when you spell it out like that, you're
leaving no doubt of exactly what you can
offer and who you help. And this really
gives you credibility in your audience's
mind. So my headline today is co-founder
of Searchable. I help ambitious
businesses drive revenue from AI [music]
search. And when I started my first
company, when I was running a digital
marketing agency in my 20s and it
specialized in luxury brands, my
headline was "Founder of digital
marketing agency Verb Brands helping
luxury brands attract high-net-worth
individuals." See, you've got to
remember, the purpose is to make your
ideal customer immediately self-identify
themselves. And the moment they read
your headline, they should be thinking,
"You know what? That is exactly what I
need." Or even, "Actually, this person's
definitely not for me." So for you, both
of those outcomes are wins because you
don't want to be spending time trying to
convince someone to buy something if
they were never actually going to do it
in the first place. So one more thing to
note, you have 220 characters available
for this. So try and keep it to two
lines max. Most people aren't going to
stop and read a long headline. So the
more you try and cram into this, the
fewer people are actually going to pay
attention to it. Your headline sells
what you do, but there's one section
that sells who you are and that is your
bio.
So the bio or the about section is the
part of the profile that offers the most
space to freely write and explain why
people should follow you. Most people
use this space to write out their CV or
their life story, but neither of those
things really work. So here's the right
way to do it. By the time someone
reaches your bio, they're already
interested in who you are and what you
have to say. Now they're looking to
understand specifically, can you as a
person and as a service provider
specifically solve the problem that they
have? So when [music] faced with this,
most people will lean heavily towards
credentials. But if they're interested
in reading your bio, they probably
already know most of your credentials.
So try and lean the other way. Showcase
some of the character and what you can
do for them specifically that stands you
out from the crowd. So explain what
transformation you can give them and
what role you can play in helping them
achieve their objectives.
Then try and share relevant parts of
your story that will help them make
their decision.
So for me, a lot of the work that I do
is helping experienced entrepreneurs
grow their businesses often by how to
reach new audiences. I've done it for 16
years across three or four different big
companies. And so when it comes to my
story, I list out nine bullet points
what I was doing at each age because I
want people to know the depth and the
breadth of my experience. So don't
overcomplicate it with small details and
how you did something. You can save that
for later down your funnel. Keep the
sentences short with line breaks fairly
often and write at a level that someone
could read whilst they're on the train
or the commute to work because they may
be doing exactly that when researching
you. So a quick thing before we
continue. This channel is brand new and
82% of you who are watching aren't
subscribed to the channel. I am
committed to making this the most
practical channel for entrepreneurs on
YouTube. So if you're finding this
useful, please subscribe to the channel.
So this is the section that most people
completely ignore. If you do this
correctly, you will turn a casual
visitor into an actual lead that is
interested in your business. So let's
start with custom buttons. When I teach
people how to do this, I'm always
surprised at how few people know these
actually exist. But it's a really strong
tool that you can use because every time
you post a piece of content, this custom
button will show up creating the
opportunity for someone to get in touch
with you. And that is potentially
thousands of times that you could push
people straight into your funnel every
single day. So my personal advice is to
direct this through to whatever is the
most important part of your business or
the best lead magnet that you have in
your business. So if you have a webinar
coming up, drive people to that. If
you're running a sales event, push
people into that side of the business.
But whatever it is, make sure that you
are sending them to a page that will at
some point ask for their email and gives
them an offer that is so good that they
don't hesitate to give you their email.
So whether it's a free guide on your
subject matter, a Notion template, a
custom GPT on your topic, videos they
can access elsewhere, or a newsletter,
something that's worth trading their
email for. So next up is one of my
favorite parts of the profile because
it's often the part that drives the
warmest leads to your business. And that
is your featured section. It's right in
the middle of your profile. And there
are a lot of people that don't know that
this even exists or how to optimize it.
They leave it completely empty. Or if
they do know about it, they often fill
it with random previous successful
LinkedIn post that they had that have
performed well, which in my opinion is
honestly a huge waste of opportunity.
So, remember, you are designing this
profile for your ICP. And they don't
care if one of your posts has gone viral
previously or got 1,000 likes
previously. They're interested in you
and what you do and how you can help
them. And this is the section where you
can give them somewhere to go. But you
should always try and have two clear
offers. So, first you should always have
a direct link to your actual offer,
whether it's an inquiry form or a
product sign up. By the time someone
reaches this point on your profile,
they're going to be highly interested in
what you have to offer. And so, even if
10 people are in the mindset to buy at
that point in time, that could be
thousands of dollars of revenue coming
your way without lifting a finger. Now,
the second path is to capture those that
are less warm and need more convincing
but still are interested in what you do
at this stage. So, for this audience,
the best thing to do is to give them, as
we said before, an irresistible offer
and push them into a newsletter
sequence. So, the problem you may face
is that some people are still guarded
about giving up their personal
information. So, I like to focus here on
creating high-value lead magnets. So,
lead magnets are very valuable resources
that contain a condensed version of your
offer or data that your ICP is deeply
interested in. So, what this does is
create a value exchange between you and
your ICP. You get their email address
and in exchange they receive a very
valuable piece of information that they
can immediately put into practice. And a
general rule of thumb here, if you are
giving away a lead magnet and you are
exchanging it for an email, I want the
ICP customer to feel as if they would
have happily paid for that piece of work
that they've received. And that for me
is a great yardstick as to whether a
lead magnet is truly valuable and
whether they will walk away with a
positive experience from it. As a bonus
tip, if you want to get really detailed
and optimize
>> [music]
>> every single part of the real estate on
your profile, even under your job role,
you can add a media element that creates
a link and you can have it direct to a
lead magnet. If you look at my profile,
you will see that I am the co-founder of
Searchable and underneath the
description of my job, I have a media
element that says a free visibility
report. And if someone clicks that, they
immediately go into a lead magnet and
immediately trade their email for use of
my product, which for me just means that
every part of my profile I'm optimizing
towards lead generation. [music]
Now, all of this work that we've been
doing on optimizing our profile is
pointless [music] if you aren't able to
develop a strong infrastructure around
it. So, everything we've discussed so
far is about getting attention on
LinkedIn, getting attention on social
media. The biggest limiting factor of
LinkedIn and social media in general is
that you don't control how successful
you are within the algorithm. You can
create the best content in the world
that will appeal to the most people.
However, if we are posting content that
is directly pushing our offer, a case
study, a testimonial, those posts are
bottom of the funnel. Those posts
typically don't do particularly well
because they don't relate to that many
people. And so, as a result, LinkedIn
and other social media platforms will
look at that post and determine that it
is not a successful post that a lot of
people don't like. And so, it doesn't
push the post out. And so, you aren't
able to reach your audience with your
specific sales messaging. Social media
is an amazing avenue to drive attention
and to get customers to know about you
and to get exposure for your business.
The thing you have to do is make sure
that you actually own your audience. And
so, the audience you have on social
media, you don't own. You don't control
that. You can't determine how many
people see your content. And so, the
solution is what I call de-platforming.
And de-platforming, as the name
suggests, is about using your LinkedIn
content to pull people off LinkedIn and
onto something that you actually own the
distribution of. So, for me, that is my
newsletter, which has about 300,000
subscribers now. And every Sunday
morning, I send them an email. And I
know that there is no algorithm that
sits between me sending it and them
receiving it. The algorithm won't
suppress its reach because that is a
relationship that I own entirely. So,
the lead magnet strategy we discussed
[music] in step six is a great way to
de-platform your audience. So, I'd
suggest that you commit some serious
effort in developing a resource that
people want to download. This could be a
framework. It could be a resource. It
could be a report. Just make it
genuinely useful for your ICP. And once
they download it, they subscribe to your
email and therefore become a contact
that you can market to in future. So,
look, I want to give you an example to
really drive this home for you. I run a
company called Searchable. And at
Searchable, our lead magnet is
effectively a free visibility report for
your company. So, you can look at how
your company is performing in ChatGPT,
in Gemini, in Claude. So, you can see
how much traffic you're generating from
AI. Now, because of the way we set up
our lead magnet, people sign up for the
tool and immediately get an in-depth
report and an agent they can use to do
strategy and work out how to improve
their search, all for trading their
email. Now, we're able to put them into
our product. And the most amazing thing
about a lead magnet when done right is
that about 39% of people who sign up for
a free account go on to then become
customers of our tool. And so, that is a
lead magnet we spent a long time
thinking about. However, the value of it
means that we convert a huge proportion
of our organic social media followers
into potential customers. I want to take
a step back now from that advanced
example and tell you something that you
can specifically implement today. Let's
provide them with a PDF or a, you know,
Notion template or a, you know, custom
GPT that's set up for their business.
You need to ask three qualifying
questions. You need to know the type of
business that they are, the size of
business they are, so how many employees
they have or what revenue they're
driving depending on how you feel your
customer will respond to that question.
And the last question is what budget
they have to achieve this specific
thing. Now, by asking those three
specific questions, you know exactly who
your customer are, you know what
problems they have. And as a result,
when you're marketing in future and
you're sending out emails, you don't
send someone the wrong offer. And I'll
give you a really clear example there.
Let's say that you deliver 10,000 pound
consultancy services, but you also
deliver
1,000 pounds digital product. You don't
want to send the beginner the 10,000
pound offer. You just want to send the
beginner the 1,000 pound offer. And so,
this is the whole point about making
sure that you're sending your customers
the right information. So, [music] let's
bring this back to where we started. I
don't want you to just think about
LinkedIn as a content platform. It
should be a sales funnel first. And
every piece of content should help fill
that funnel with hot leads. This
approach has helped me generate millions
of dollars for my portfolio of
companies. And I want it to do the same
thing for you. So, if you enjoyed this
video, check out my last video on how to
dominate the LinkedIn algorithm.